[Music]
[Applause]
you probably all agree with me that this
is a very nice world it's made of
asphalt and asphalt is a very nice
material to dry for but not always
especially not on these days as today
when it's raining a lot then you can
have a lot of splash water in the
asphalt and especially if you don't ride
with your bicycle and pass these cars
then that's not very nice
also asphalt can create a lot of noise
it's a noisy material and if we produce
roads like in the Netherlands fairly
close to cities then we would like a
silent Road the solution for that is to
make roads or the porous asphalt porous
asphalt material that we use now in most
of the highways in the Netherlands
it has pores and water can just drain
through it so all the rain water will
flow away to the side and you have road
easy to drive on so no splash water
anymore also the noise will disappear in
these pores because it's very hollow all
the noise will disappear so it's a very
silent world
it also has disadvantages of course and
this advantage of this road is that
raffling can occur
what is revelling you see that in this
road that the stones at the surface come
off first you get one stone then several
more and more and more and more and more
and then they I will not do that
what they can damage your windshield so
you're not happy with that
and finally this reveling can also lead
to more and more damage sometimes you
can create potholes with that ha he's
ready potholes of course that can become
a problem what we have a solution here
you see actually how the damage appears
in this material it supports asphalt
like I said so you have only a small
amount of binder between the stones due
to weathering due to UV light with
oxidation this binder this bitumen the
glue between the aggregates is going to
shrink and if it's shrinks it get micro
cracks and the delaminate from the
aggregates and then if you drive over
the road you take out the aggregates
what we just saw here to solve this
problem we sort of self-healing
materials if we can make this material
self-healing then probably we have a
solution so what we can do is use a
steel wool just to clean pants and the
steel wool we can cut them very small
pieces and these very small pieces we
can mix to the bitumen so then you have
asphalt with very small pieces of steel
in it then you need the machine like you
see here that you can use for cooking
induction machine induction can heat
especially steel it's very good in that
then what you do is you heat up the
steel you melt the bitumen and the
bitumen will flow into these micro
cracks and the stones are again fixed to
the surface today I use a microwave
because I cannot take the big induction
machine heat on the stage so I microwave
is the similar system so I put the
specimen in which I'm now going to take
out to see what happened so this is the
specimen coming out now so I said via
the abstraction in virtual machine in
the lab to heat up the the specimens we
tested a lot of specimens there and then
the government they actually saw our
results and they thought well that's
very interesting we have to try that
so they donated to us a piece of highway
former meters up to a 58 where we had to
make it
strike to test this material so that's
what we need here you see where we're
making the test Road and then of course
this road will last several years
without any damage that's what we know
from practice so we took a lot of
samples from this road and we tested
them in the lab so we did aging on the
samples did a lot of loading on it
healed them we'll have induction machine
and heal them and test them again
several times we can repeat that so
actually the conclusion from this
research is that if we go on the road
every four years with our healing
machine this is the big version we have
made to go on the real Road if you go in
the road every four years we can double
the service life of this world which of
course saves a lot of money well to
conclude I can say that we made a
material using steel fibers addition of
steel fibers using induction energy to
really increase the service life of the
road double the service type you can
even do that so it really saved a lot of
money with very simple tricks and now
you have cost curious if it also worked
so I still have the specimen here it's
quite warm actually it still has to cool
down first before I can show you that
the healing works what I will do at
while let's see yeah it worked
thank you
you
[Music]